INTRODUCTION TO THE UNIX/Linux OPERATING SYSTEM
Lab 2: SIMPLE FILE COMMANDS 


Show what command(s) you used to do each action below.

You can turn this lab in on paper or by mail or by attaching it to the "assignments" tab (in "Homework for week 2"). What you need to do is say what commands you used to find the answer to each question. You do NOT have to turn in the history or script for this lab. There is an on-line copy of this lab in my direcory: 
~isaacs/class/unix.part1/lab2 -- the easiest thing to do might be to either edit a copy of that, or print it out and write the answers.


1. Create a file "text1".
cat > text1

2. Fill this file in with text,
with at least a couple of lines of text.
First line of text
Second line of text
Third line of text


3. Close the file. 
^d

4. Browse the file. Look at the beginning of the file; look at the end. 
nano text1

5. Copy the file "text1" to a new file.
cat text1 > text2

6. Change the name of the old file.
mv text1 new_text1

7. How do you know it's there (what commands could you use to find out?)
I did ls before and after running the command to make sure it was renamed, then used the nano editor to make sure the contents were the same.

8. What command(s) will show its permissions?
ls -l

9. What command(s) will show how big it is?
ls -l

10. What command(s) will show how many lines are in it?
wc new_text1

11. Change the permissions on the file so that everyone can read it, and
no one (not even the owner) can write it.
chmod 444 text2

12. Make a new file using the "echo" command.
echo "single line file" > echo_text

13.  Make the file you just made executable (but not writable) by everybody.
chmod 555 echo_text

14. Try to change the owner to someone else: for instance, make "isaacs" 
the owner. (It should fail -- you can only change owner if you
are the superuser.)
Change the permissions of the file. 
Delete the file (use "rm" command.)

chown isaacs text2
chmod 777 text2
rm text2

Last modified: February 6, 2016
